The unity overview.
The games industry is big and getting bigger amongst leisure time activities.
Playing interactive experiences like video games has become increasingly popular.
On a weekly basis, it makes up the most of these activities.
The size of the global game development industry is tremendously big.
You can see across different continents the size of the global game market.
There's many ways that game development teams can solve the challenges of developing games.
Choosing a middleware, a real time engine like Unity brings a lot of features and services to a game
development team and allows you to create content more quickly.
Unity is an industry leading choice for over a decade, and you can create content that is 2D three
D, VR AR across all different sorts of industries.
Gaming, of course, but also architecture, simulation, action and feature films.
Unity is the name of the company, its services, the platform you build on and the runtime engine itself.
Unity is just one development platform you can choose from, but it's tremendously popular.
Of the top 1000 performing mobile games, over 70% are created with unity.
Unity is created with everyone in mind.
Let's see more.
Here's a screenshot from a popular type of game.
We can see here some of the essentials of video game development.
There's UI, these on screen elements, text and the minimap.
These things make up the user interface.
There's the input taking input from finger swipes on a mobile device, gamepad controllers on a console
mouse and keyboard on PC.
There's rendering the audio and the graphics, of course, to the user.
These can be two D or three D, and these elements can be animated.
There's many different types of animations in video game development from the screen fading in and out
to the way the character walks around the world.
And finally there's the scripting or coding that you do.
In Unity, that's the C-sharp programming language.
So when we think of unity, what are the features that are built in?
Well, by choosing Unity as the middleware solution, you get a lot of features out of the box.
All the ones I just talked about and much, much more.
In addition to these features, there's also optional services.
Unity provides different services for acquiring and measuring your users, providing backend functionality
as well as multiplayer.
Overall game teams can choose the tools and platforms that make sense for them.
Creating your own game engine is possible, but requires tremendous resources in a larger team.
The end result may be more customizable.
However, choosing something off the shelf like Unity, which brings these features and services, allows
teams to offer end users much more content more quickly and of the choices out there.
Unity is among the most powerful and popular options.
We've seen that the games industry is big and it's growing.
Unity is a powerful option to choose and includes features and services out of the box.
Next, we'll continue looking at unity, particularly its structure and organization.
Thanks.